While the results of the study initially appeared to suggest a clear relationship between exposure duration and lexical diversity, a deeper syntactic analysis revealed that clause density and embedding patterns significantly confounded the results. This finding, although unexpected, aligns with prior research suggesting that syntactic complexity may play a mediating role in language production metrics, particularly in aging populations or individuals with early-stage cognitive decline. Furthermore, participants who demonstrated higher scores on working memory tasks were more likely to produce well-formed, hierarchically structured sentences even under time pressure, whereas those with lower scores showed a tendency to simplify their utterances, often resorting to parataxis or ellipsis. These outcomes underscore the importance of including tree-based syntactic metrics, such as Yngve depth or Frazier load, in any analysis aiming to differentiate surface-level verbosity from true grammatical sophistication.

I'd like to ask some questions about the past week. How have you been feeling since last Thursday? Um, I don't know, uh. But not too good, not too bad. Yeah. OK. Have you been working? Yeah, yeah, I, I have a bit. OK. What's your mood been like in the past week? Um, it, it hasn't been great. Um, I've been a little sad. I've been a little angry. Have you been feeling down or depressed? Yeah, definitely down. Can you describe what this feeling has been like for you? How bad is this feeling? Um, it, it's, it's been hard, like, um, I've been Definitely feeling a lot down and Uh, it's, it's getting worse. Does this feeling lift at all if something good happens? Yeah, but I, I wouldn't say too much, like maybe a bit if something really good happens. How are you feeling about the future? Um, I, I, I don't know. I, I don't think about it too much. Have you been feeling discouraged or pessimistic? So maybe a bit, yeah, maybe a bit discouraged, I'd say. Mhm. In the last week, how often have you felt down? Um, maybe. You know, half the days of the past week about 3 or 4 days. And on those days, how long each day do you feel that way? Um, mostly at night, I guess I'd say, um. Yeah, so like a few hours at night. Have you been crying at all? Um, maybe, maybe a little. A little. How, how often would you say? Um, maybe once, I think I cried last week. Mm. And how long have you been feeling this way, kind of down and, and what you just described? Mm, maybe for a couple of weeks, maybe even a month. Mhm OK. How have you been spending your time this past week when you're not working? Um, when I'm not working, sometimes I try to go out for walks and You know, go to the park, um, I'm trying to get myself to go to the gym. Stuff like that. Have you felt interested in doing those things, or do you feel like you have to push yourself to do them? Um, I definitely have to push myself. Yeah, I don't feel very motivated right now. How hard do you have to push yourself to do them? Um, definitely a bit, um, you know, I I, I, I I really have to think about doing that and push myself. How much less interested in these things have you been this past week compared to when you're not depressed? Uh, definitely a lot less interested this past week and usually I'd say, usually more motivated for sure. Have you stopped doing any of these things that you described? Uh, walking, going to the gym in the past week. Um, not stopped, but definitely reduced. Maybe, maybe I've stopped like exercising in general, like, yeah, so going to the gym as well. How many hours in a day would you spend, uh, would you say that you spend doing the things that interest you? Um, not, not too many hours. I feel like I don't, I don't do the things that I want to most of the time. Is there anything that you look forward to? Um, No, I, I, I don't really look forward to anything. I'm really pessimistic right now. And have you been able to get as much work done as you normally do? Um, Not really, I guess, I guess I, I have more trouble. You know, doing work, so I don't do as much. And how much less productive or efficient are you compared to before you were feeling this way? Um, I don't know. I guess quite a bit, maybe, yeah, I, I maybe get like half my work done that I usually was getting done. Mm. Now, let's talk about your sleep. What were your usual hours of going to sleep and waking up before this period of feeling down and depressed began? Mm, I guess I used to go to sleep around midnight and I usually wake up around 7, 7:30 a.m. And when have you been falling asleep and waking up over the past week? Um, I, it's, it's been kind of weird, I guess, for the past week, maybe I've been falling asleep later. I'm having more trouble falling asleep and then I, I wake up, I wake up during the night and then I have really, I, I have a lot of trouble waking up at 7 a.m. so I sometimes I wake up at 5, sometimes at 10. It's really varied. Mm. So, you started to say this, but have you had any trouble falling asleep at the beginning of the night? Yeah, definitely, yeah, I definitely struggle, um, falling asleep. I kind of lie down there and I I can't seem to Get myself to sleep. How long has it been taking you to fall asleep? Um, I don't know. I, it can rain. Sometimes it's a few minutes when I'm lucky. Most of the time it's more than an hour. How many nights this week has it taken more than an hour to fall asleep? Um, Maybe 80% of the days, let's say. And during the past week, have you been waking up in the middle of the night? Yeah, definitely. I, I do wake up in the middle of the night a couple of times. Do you get out of bed or what do you do when you wake up? Yeah, sometimes I get out of bed and go watch TV or something. Um, some other times I just lie there looking at the ceiling. And when you try to go back to bed, are you able to fall back asleep or how long does it take you to fall back asleep? Yeah, it, it usually takes uh another like half an hour to go back to sleep. And do you normally wake up more than once per night? Yeah, I guess. I probably more than once. How many nights this week have you had that kind of trouble? Um, definitely a couple, maybe 3. And what time have you been waking up in the morning? When you're up for the day this past week. Um, Uh, I don't know. Um. It's, it's really varied honestly. Sometimes it's really early, like 5 a.m. Sometimes it's, it's much later. Do you wake up with an alarm clock or do you just wake up yourself? I do have an alarm clock, but I usually wake up before it rings, so, yeah. How many mornings this past week have you awakened early? Mm, I guess. Half of the days in the past week. Mhm. OK. Sometimes, along with depression or anxiety, people might lose interest in sex. This week, how has your interest in sex been? And I'm not asking about actual activity but just your interest in sex. Um, I, I guess it's fallen quite a bit, yeah, for sure. How much less interest would you say you have compared to when you're not depressed? A little or a lot less. Um, it's, it's definitely a lot less, uh, I'll say I, I don't have any interest. Insects right now. OK. How has your appetite been this past week? Um, it, it, it's OK, I guess. Uh, I do, I do struggle to eat sometimes, like. Yeah, maybe, maybe reduced. Um, how much reduced compared to normal, would you say? Um, definitely a bit reduced, yeah, um, like. I used to eat 3 meals per day, you know, 3 full meals. Now I, I, I struggle to eat more than 1. Have you had to force yourself to eat? Um, yeah, definitely a couple of times. Yeah. Have other people had to urge you to eat? Yeah, yeah, I think so, yeah. Have you lost any weight since this period of feeling down and depressed began? Yeah, definitely, definitely lose some weight. Did you lose any weight this last week? Um, yeah, I think so. I, I might have, yeah, some way. And do you think that this is because of feeling down? Definitely, yeah, definitely that's because of feeling down. How much weight did you lose in the past week? Um, I haven't measured it, uh, but I guess. At least 1 pound or 2. And uh do, do you think your clothes are any looser on you? Um, yeah, maybe. I, I do get that feeling sometimes. OK. Have you gained any of the weight back that you've lost? Um, no, I don't think so. OK. How has your energy been this past week? Mm, quite, quite a low, I'd say I don't have a lot of energy for doing any of the things I usually enjoy. Have you felt tired? Yeah, yeah, I definitely feel a little very, very tired. How much of the time do you feel this way? Um, quite, quite a big percentage of my time. It's, it's been pretty bad, but. I, after work, I, I, I don't have any any energy to do anything else. This week, have you had any aches or pains? Um, maybe, maybe, yeah, I do my, I do feel a bit sore, like my body is a bit sore. How much of the time do you feel this way? Um, yes, same like quite a big percentage of my time. Have you felt any heaviness in your limbs, your back, or your head? Yeah, yeah, definitely my limbs. Like I, I felt, I struggle to. You know, move a lot and I just wanna lie down. Have you been putting yourself down this past week, feeling you've done things wrong or let others down? Yeah, maybe, maybe I've had a few of those thoughts. What have those thoughts been when you've had them? Um, yeah, just general. You know, feeling disappointed with myself or like. You know, but I see. That I'm not reaching the potential of the people around me. Need me to have, you know, letting them down, etc. Have you been feeling guilty about anything that you've done or not done? I, I guess more for uh feeling guilty about some things that I've not done like basic responsibilities. Um, stuff like that is what I'm feeling guilty about. Have you thought that you've brought this feeling, this period of depression or feeling down on yourself in some way? Mm. I mean, yeah, I like half of it, I feel like has gone from me with another half, you know, from society and my life in general, so it's like combination I guess. Have you been hearing voices or seeing visions in the last week? Mm, no, no cancer that I have. OK. This past week, have you had thoughts that life is not worth living? May maybe I have, I have had a few of those thoughts, yeah. Any thoughts about thinking that you've, you'd be better off dead? Yeah. Yeah, I, yeah, I do have some of these results. Have you had any thoughts about hurting or killing yourself? Um, Yeah, yeah, a bit, I guess. I I, I have thought about killing myself, yeah. What have you thought about? Can you tell me a little bit more about those thoughts? I mean, Um, yeah, like. I so You know, I felt like I'm not living up what. You know, people around me need me to be and I'm not happy with my life, so I I kind of, you know, get these thoughts, but I've never really acted on them. OK. Have you done anything to, to hurt yourself or anything like that? Mm, no, I haven't actually acted on anything like that. OK. Have you been feeling anxious or tense this past week? Yeah, definitely a bit, yeah. Is this more than normal for you? Yeah, I, I do feel some anxiety normally, but like now I guess it's been a bit more overbearing. Have you been feeling irritable this past week? Yeah, definitely. I feel like a lot of things that are, that shouldn't be, should be more mild, you know, irritate me. Can you give me some examples? How bad has it been? Um, it's, it's been moderately bad, like, for example, you know, if I see like A minor thing that I In the street that they I thought it was weird like I will get mad and, you know. get very irritated and try to lash off. Have you been worrying about big problems more than you need to? Um, Yeah, definitely. Yeah. I, I do think that. You know, very small things occupy a lot of space in my mind. Right now. And how much of the time are you spending thinking about these worries? Um, like, At least 40% of my time. Like, yeah, 50 maybe, like quite a bit. Does this worry or or worrying about these things caused any problems or difficulties for you? Yeah, it's, it's definitely making me very anxious and You know, um, I'm having trouble Doing simple stuff and functioning because I, I keep worrying about random things. What's an example of something that you're not doing because you're worrying about things? Um, uh, I guess some stuff in work I'm less, I'm more hesitant of doing stuff. That I need to get done for like chores in the house, stuff like that. Mhm. OK. So, now, tell me if you've had any of the following physical symptoms in the last week. Um, dry mouth? Um, no, I don't think I've had dry mouth. Gas or indigestion? Um, Mm, maybe a bit, yeah, maybe a bit. Diarrhea, stomach cramps, or belching? Um, yeah, definitely some stomach cramps, uh, yeah. How much has that been bothering you in the past week? Um, yeah, quite a bit. Um, I have trouble eating stuff because of this. OK. How, how bad does it get and how much of the time do you experience it? Uh, it get, it gets a bit bad. um, I experience it like. A few days per week, uh, a few days the past week. What about experiencing heart palpitations or headaches? Yeah, a lot of headaches for sure. How much have those been bothering you in the past week? Uh, a, a bit, yeah. Um, they, you know, they don't let me function properly. I just, you know, keep wanting to lie down. And how much of the time this past week have you Be bothered by headaches. Um, 3 to 4 days. And what about experiencing hyperventilating or sighing? Um, I, I don't think I've experienced hyperventilating or sign. What about increased urinary or a change in urinary frequency or sweating? Um, yes, I think for sure. I do. I do get to sweat more, I think. And how much has that bothered you this past week? Yeah, a bit. I, I, I kind of feel half, half cold most of the time. How much of the time do you feel bothered by uh sweating, feeling hot and cold? Um Maybe, yeah, well, be, not too much, um, maybe a few hours, some days. In the last week, how much have your thoughts been focused on your physical health or how your body is working? Um, quite a bit. I, I've been thinking a lot about my condition and my You know, I wanna get better. Have you worried a lot about being or becoming physically ill? Yeah, definitely. I, I do worry about it. Would you say that you've been really preoccupied with this spot? Yeah, I guess it's the first thing on my mind. Are you worried a lot that you have a specific medical illness? Um, I, I do worry that I have, um, maybe severe anxiety and depression. Yeah. Do you complain much about how you feel physically? I think I do, yeah, I do a lot. Have you seen a doctor about any of these problems? I, I have seen a few doctors for it, yeah. And what do they say about what's going on? Um, let's say I guess that a lot of that stuff are in my mind and That I, I, some of them have given me some medications. Yeah. OK. OK, that's all the questions that I have for you. OK. Thank you very much."